so a lot of your work is now in
you know developing tools to make data
open and well documented
and also uh passable and you are
reproducible in the sense that you can
go back to be an actual
exact state of a data set but also with
the
uh addition of all the processing you
can do all those data
and how the the whole cycle of the
management of those
raw data to be processed data the result
is actually done
i think so it's a very broad vision and
a
very an exceptional skills uh so
michael i'm so grateful that you've come
and uh
thanks for having me and with that
introduction i first have to downscale
expectations the so jb
actually asked me to present something
rough not very well thought through
and potentially provoking and and make
it short and
leave space for discussions right so
this is more of what it will be
um it it's called a progress report
because
um it is a snapshot of
um what we're doing at the moment uh at
my host institution in
in the the research center in newly
trying to
actually roll out um data management
technology to an active research
community that has
other interests than participating in a
roll out of data management technology
so um first thing i want to make clear
is that um you've all heard about fair
data and i'm not going to talk about it
it's i think we've we've all had enough
everything that i'm going to say is not
in contradiction with uh
with you know fair principles in in any
of that
and the we'll just accept it basically
as a
as a fact but what i do want to point
out though
is that uh in order to have
a successful uh research data management
and here you can see
a graph of something that's called that
that
supposedly was derived from the uh the
the muscle of pyramid
for those who are also in psychology so
um oddly enough this has been published
by by elsevier
um and the what you can see
here are uh the the desirable properties
of
of successful data that ultimately
wants to become a where's my mouse wants
to become a
a reusable resource that you know can be
used for reproducible research that is
reviewed and comprehensible
uh and so on so these are typically the
the the data properties that you will
you'll get to hear about in in open data
and research data
management talks what i want to focus on
uh is the
is the other end of the spectrum which
we usually
uh treat as a given so data storage
where do we store it how do we store it
in what form do we store it
and the next step um what do we preserve
and you can see even in the in the
concept of the original authors
those are the gray parts uh they're not
worth thinking about because we have
uh big drives right and there's there's
still some compute canada somewhere that
gives us half a petabyte and we we don't
have to think about it much
but if you look at the uh the the
data life cycle the general
flow of information from planning over
data collection collaboration analyses
uh storage and preservation comes
relatively late in the
in the process but all the other pieces
still require that
that data is somewhere and
so there is a lot more to
research data management before we get
to the point of
deciding which aspects of data we
actually want to
invest further work in to make them fair
compliant
and better accessible and and nicely
structured
input into or for reproducible research
and the the other thing that you
probably um
all are all familiar with in from from
from talks about this
including uh previous iterations of my
own talks
is this depiction that the individual
researcher is struggling
with with the management of their data
so here is the famous example of
whenever you think as a researcher that
something is final there are at least 96
other steps
behind it and they they leave a mess up
behind
on your hard drive and typically uh the
the conclusion then is to say well the
researchers they're just not structured
enough and they have
not insufficient technical capabilities
so what they what they should be doing
is they should first become at least
part-time software developers because
they have the tools they use version
control
and if we would all know version control
then the problem goes away
right and i would argue that um
just saying uh people need to understand
git
and their books about this so they
should read that or the first half year
of their phd
should be just technical skills is a bit
short-sighted because
you know here are you on the more
fortunate situation but for example in
germany
typical phd
lifetime or duration is three years
right so
so that's not many uh minutes in in
three years and every minute that you
spend on
technical education and software
engineering practices is a minute that
you don't spend on science
right and then of course there's a
trade-off between what do you want
and how generic the skills are that you
you can you can
take from one topic or the other for you
know later career
but potentially outside academia but
that's a separate issue
so i i personally think that that just
focusing on introducing
um information
you know version control technology to
fix the problem is is short-sighted
and to just um make it
make it clear although we are developing
dataled and that is a version control
system for for data
uh i don't believe the datalit on its
own
or anything that it it could do on its
own is the solution to the problem
and so if none of that actually is the
solution problem what is then um
the solution to the problem or what why
what even why am i even here
uh talking about this and i think
we ultimately need to decide and
probably not on a global level but
specifically for
for any institution or in a research
environment
we have to decide how technical do we
want the researchers um
to become and and and figure out
how uh much of the very constrained
resource of time
needs to be invested into what kind of
topic
and then ultimately how painful do we
want to make
it for for researchers to participate in
a process that
that gives us better quality data
and and you know to some degree also
better quality signs at the end of it
and there are probably countless ways uh
to to talk about this
i found that i personally can draw
much insight from asking the question
whether
my data management concept or your data
management management concept can answer
the question
which data are important and
and if you have had to do with
you know any amount of of data then that
question sooner or later
um um pops up right uh let's say
you change your laptop right
what do you copy i would suspect that
most people
follow the same approach that i do i
just make sure that i get a laptop that
has twice the capacity
and i just copy everything yes exactly
is there anyone who doesn't do that
great right
so we're all on the same page um
but that of course has has has issues
right if we're if we're talking about
an institute that has you know
computational aspirations then we're
we're at half a petabyte at the moment i
think uh easily
and if we're if we're doubling that all
every three years
uh there are issues with that and
i think the the question which data are
important is a difficult question
because we have to look at it from from
various angles and
and i could come up with at least three
different uh
roles or groups of people that would
look different differently at that
question
and there's there's first and foremost
the the individual researcher that has
uh some sort of um uh goal
the career advancement figuring out a
particular scientific question
and so on but there are also uh what i
called
uh data stewards and they they could be
uh various different
uh types of uh people those could be pis
they're you know sitting on top of a
larger uh research
uh activity orchestration project those
could be funders
that invest money into research that is
then carried out by
by individual labs uh those could be
librarians
that are interested in preserving
meaningful
pieces of information and have been
produced and of course there are also
the uh there's the the the technical
stuff and technical administrations
sysadmins and and people that design
computational
uh infrastructure or uh make sure that
they are available to
to researchers and i've you know listed
here a few
uh properties data properties that i
will not go
over but i just try to you know map what
is interesting
to those individual um uh groups and
what you can see
here there are aspects like the unique
nature of of data
that could be uh considered relevant for
all people
um for all groups so uh we're all
for some you know uh reason or another
interested in not
necessarily duplicating the work that
has already been done
uh and and you can look at that from a
technical perspective from a
from a cost efficiency perspective or
from a
career perspective right but there are
other uh properties
where where the the the interest in in
them is not homogeneously uh distributed
across groups
and and for for the purpose of of today
i want to just stick with
very very low level easily
uh in my opinion comprehensible
properties which is you know what kind
of data do we want to invest
our day-to-day resources like disk space
into right
or what kind of data or specific data
sets do we want to
uh invest in uh in terms of long-term
preservation
and potential reuse and
thinking about all those things and
being tasked with you know
coming up with a scenario
where we could answer those questions um
made me uh realize that
i that the two aspects could potentially
bring us to a situation where we can
much easier
make decisions regarding
those questions and those two i want to
go over
over the next few minutes one of them is
modularity now i'll explain uh what i
mean by modularity
and the other one is ephemerality
so we'll we'll go over them uh in order
and and what i mean by
by modularity is that we need to have
meaningful units of data that are
clearly recognizable
for anyone and that is the key
ingredient for us
to be able to even understand what the
what
in what is important even is right so if
we want to decide whether
some data is important we need to know
what that data actually is and what is
how much it you know where it starts
where it ends how much of it
is there and so on and instead of
you know belaboring that point um a lot
i just want to give a quick example
of how modularity can
easily be lost or obfuscated in a
typical
scenario that i think we've all seen on
file managers on our respective machines
so here you could
you see a very simple data set that
maybe has two
you know let's say raw data acquisitions
they're called
a1 uh in in each of the two
samples that are in here now imagine
that's the raw data set
and in in many uh systems and scenarios
if we would apply any sort of processing
to to that raw data
we could come up with a scenario where
we put the generated
outcomes or results or derivative data
right next to those files
right because it makes sense we could we
could give them
more comprehensible names and call them
something something
result or something something improved
but but the point is we put them right
next to each other and i would argue
that if we
if we do this and just look at the
content of those data sets
we have removed an important piece of
information that is no longer easily
accessible
which is which of that is the input
to the transformation that whose output
or which
the output of which we've we've captured
in in that dataset
so this infusion of inputs and outputs
into the same structure
in this very simple way uh is is a
problem because now we need expert
knowledge
in the sense of what exactly was that
transformation and what is the
naming scheme etc uh that was um
that was that was applied and
i would argue that if we if we make a a
small change to this uh procedure
we would have an easier time and more
accessible technology
to um to make this problem
uh not much of a problem or reduce its
its impact and it looks like this so
here's the same
raw data set that we've seen before and
we apply the same transformation
but instead of putting uh the outputs
next to the files and infuse them into
the same directory structure
we just keep them separate right and
it's it's not important whether we
what we call those inputs and raw and it
doesn't doesn't matter but we keep them
we keep this part of uh
the the join data set that has both the
inputs and the outputs
clearly separate and we put them uh we
put it in a separate
directory for a simple reason
and here i will make the the first
reference uh to datalit
and i'm i'll try to do that for the rest
of the talk also
um just to outline
what kind of impact or how uh those
design decisions
uh could be used for uh technology that
exists so i'm not saying
everybody should use datalit although
i'm saying everybody should use datalit
but there are clearly other solutions
out there the important point here is
the is the idea not the implementation
so in in datalit we can treat those
uh those individual data sets as
uh separate but jointly uh version
controlled
uh entities and they can be
version controlledly linked to each
other so what you can see here in
in the in that box is the uh the full
uh data that is that is necessary in a
data set that references another data
set
in order to track completely the version
and the uh availability uh information
of of another data set and with this
simple technology which needs nothing
else than a text file in a bit of code
we can use
individually version control dataset to
assemble
a pretty much arbitrarily complex
analysis structure layout so here's an
example
for a neuroimaging data analysis
which consists if we're if we're
starting from the from the top
if i can see my mouse here it is we're
starting from the top
so what you see here is a depiction of a
i would argue relatively typical
of project folder that could exist on a
laptop or an
on a compute cluster for a particular
analysis which is called
analysis a here an analysis a consists
of particular code that makes uh
you know uses some software libraries
this is documentation and
maybe computational environments and so
on and
this topmost data set so all those
little
three piece of rectangular things they
represent individual data sets
that are separately or jointly version
controlled
this top-level data set captures the
results of that analysis
right and everything else
inputs to the analysis they are
referenced
as the data sets that actually contain
uh
those data files so they're they're
actually
not part of it they're just placed in
the right position
uh to look like this in a in a
like a like a traditional uh a project
folder
and that kind of nesting of data sets
can be arbitrarily
deep so we can have the analysis
reference a data set with pre-processed
data
which in turn reference references a
data set
with the raw data that was the input
into the
into the processing and each level can
also have the code in computational
environments
that are necessary or were necessary to
you know computationally execute that
transformation
right so we can we we have here an
indication of
a data structure that that not only
holds the data
but in some sense also the province
information of how the data came to be
i would argue that if we
modularize we have
made the first step to answer the
question uh what is important
now the question is um next question is
when to modularize so what is
a meaningful individual unit of data
that um that that we have to look at
and and i came up with a bunch of
reasons when you would want to
modularize meaning when you would want
to put two files into two different data
sets
or two different directories in if you
look at it from the
from the file system perspective and i
would say you
you would want to do that whenever the
target audience for
for two files is is potentially
different right
so if we're looking at it from the
neural imaging data processing
perspective
uh there are some people that work with
raw data right those are the
pipeline people that pre-process a lot
and there are some people
who work with process data or
pre-processed data or
highly aggregated statistical
information right like
metrics of of some sort and if you have
two different
audiences then you would want to put
those those two files into different
uh data sets also if the target audience
differs between you know in in terms of
who is authorized to see that kind of
information right
public versus private data different
levels of protections legal implications
and so on and so on
and also uh the the specificity
of the information in terms of uh
required domain knowledge in order to
make any use of that
uh information so you can you can also
use that as
a criteria also very important if you
look at it from a from a technical
perspective
is the pace of evolution right so if
two files are being expected
to get updates at a different
different pace or for different uh
period of time
then that's also an indication to put
them into different data sets
for example if i make an nmr scan
the dicom that comes out of the scanner
is factual right it will never change
right this is this is it if it is broken
it will be broken forever
there's there's no change in information
converted nifty file that comes out of
it because we we make that because we
decided that our entire software stack
would not be able to read
the original files the dicom files is
the product of a transformation that
could is potentially buggy or
you know produce broken uh broken files
but can also be fixed over time so we
have an expectation
that there could be an update if we have
that
but not for the other file that's an
indication to put them in two different
data sets
same goes for the longitudinal
perspective of any sort of activity so
an ongoing study that will
continuously see new acquisition while
each acquisition is factual
and could be archived pretty much
instantaneously the
study itself is something that evolves
over time and needs
a different data set that is more active
for a longer time
there are technical constraints so if
we're talking version control then
nowadays we all mean
uh git so git has um constraints in the
number of files that you can deal with
so if you have a data set that has
a billion files don't put it in one git
repository just
this is not a good idea as a current
technical limitation maybe it goes away
in the future
but now it's an indication to put things
into our different data sets
you can have file system issues we spent
the last two days uh talking about
uh the uk biobank data set which will
eventually have
100 000 subjects most file systems that
we're using nowadays
will not be able to have 100 000
directories in any directory it's just
technically impossible
if you have that you likely want to have
the content spread over multiple
directories
right and of course there are legal uh
things that i
that i already touched upon where
you can make data in one form available
but not another if that's the case then
you you put things in
in different data sets and that will
essentially
you know separate
the what we what we talk about
with data into more homogeneous subset
of
data in general the other aspect
is this uh ephemerality uh in particular
of workspaces
is uh says that something is short-lived
right so why would uh in
a talk about data management technology
you would want to talk about something
as short lived
because it's an interesting uh force
that can be applied to change the
somewhat social or psychological
dynamics of the people working with data
so here's an example from my home folder
on on this machine so apparently i have
almost uh one and a half million files
on this thing and for some reason
uh they're on average two files per
directory
uh and the oldest file is from 2004
that's my entire
uh scientific career on that machine and
i have backup so please don't steal this
from me
um now the question is if there is
something like this
uh a data structure that i carry with me
that i
i find really precious
for 15 years what are the chances that
that
that this is organized enough that i
could find the mental strength over one
and a half decade
to not mess it up such that i could give
it to any of you
and you could make sense of what is on
there right i think we all agree that
the chances are
pretty slim if not exactly zero because
i have problems understanding what is on
there right and that's why i buy it the
the hard drive with the uh that's twice
the size as the original one so i can
afford not to think about it right but
we are
at a stage in in your imaging and
neuroscience research where we can't
afford
to not think about those things because
there is real cost associated with it
right and and not all of us come from
you know privileged
uh privileged um institutions that can
easily assign half a petabyte to an
institute
for people to just play with right so so
that is something
uh that that needs to be uh tackled in
one way or another so the question is
how can i get myself to not produce that
mess and
make it easier for others to understand
what i did
and i think the idea of ephemeral
workspaces
can do wonders so here's a
schema of a data
management uh or a managed data
environment
a managed data processing environment uh
that we could have
so instead of just having so i use here
this this
strange dollar or something something
notation
to to say that they're i'm not talking
with when i say home
i'm not talking about my home directory
of this laptop but i'm talking about
you know some personal uh workspace that
people have
where that lives is not really important
doesn't have to be a laptop doesn't have
to be a work
uh workstation could be it could be
anything right a rented cloudsmith
doesn't matter but this is your personal
uh uh environment and what we what we
consider personal we would also consider
this is the most
flexible thing where we have most
degrees of freedom we completely
administer
that ourselves we can do whatever we
want right we can be as
as clever as we can but it doesn't mean
that that that is clever
in absolute terms right and
the i think if we
are in an institutional setting uh that
is not
for where do i keep my music files uh
but where
the ultimate goal is that the research
that we produce is highly structured and
interpretable
then i think putting a storage
limitation on top of that to exactly
make it
impossible to just buy something that is
twice the size and not think about
structure uh to to take this liberty
or privilege uh away and also
to have only minor computational
resources
uh associated with uh this
you know flexible unstructured
environment
and then of course for any computational
computational um
you know activity there need to be
compute resources right
and you probably have a cluster here and
then there's a whole commercial industry
that has cloud computing resources and
then there are
high performance computing centers uh
scattered over the world
and and those make analysis possible
that we could not do on our laptops and
you know whatever size personal uh
devices and they will give us
uh a different set of constraints so a
high performance computing center
might allow us a particular set of you
know
you know number of files for example or
requires a particular structure or data
transfer mechanism
to to get information on there in order
to be able to
uh to to process them and traditionally
uh this would be a communication that
happens
you know from the personal uh
environment
to the computing resource and then back
and forth by some
more or less structured mechanism right
some people use batch
uh uh uh batch uh how do you call it
batch handling batch queuing systems
um some people not and and there might
be a variety
between them some people copy entire uh
data sets
some only the parts that we need so
there's lots of heterogeneity
and as a consequence there's lots of
heterogeneity in the nature of the
of the outputs what i'm saying now is
and that's not revolutionary because it
exists in many places
what i'm saying now there should be a
third component
which is just a data store and a data
store that enforces
with no degrees of freedom how
data is uh is represented and that is
a proxy between the flexible home
environment
and the compute resource right so that
in general
with exceptions because we all need to
make compromises in in research
with with exceptions but typically
uh information goes from the home
environment
into this highly structured data store
and the compute environment
pulls information out of that data store
and what we what we have then
also and right so the compute results
are also pushed
back into that data store and for people
to actually see them
they would have to pull them out of the
data store again
so if we do that then we have
a certain impact
on the no
on the possible workflows that that
people can
uh implement so first of all there
should be very little
impact in terms of you know the the the
degrees of freedom
that researchers have you know for for
tinkering and exploring
data sets because they still have their
home environment they still have
some resources to to explore data
but as soon as they want to do
computing at scale they have to use the
machinery they have to go
through that data store they have to
structure the information
in a in a particular way and
if we make all information
transfer go through this data store we
can be sure that all relevant
information
in one way or another is in that data
store
right so we have a single point that
everything passes through and if we
structure that in a meaningful way
we have at least the potential
to figure out the important part like
what is
important we have everything that there
is in data
now the question is how do we mark it up
so we can answer the question
of what is important and
here's a daylight specific part so i'll
just show you a
you know flat file no database required
implementation of a data store that has
these purposes
as far as i can see them at the moment
um
so you have a directory somewhere
on a big hard drive and
it contains several pieces so there is a
there is an entry for each data set
a data set as we know we modularize
um so there is some sort of an more
homogeneous part
or collection of files um and
and each data set lives in a particular
directory and it's named by
uh by
based on an identifier that that data
set has so in this case it's a uuid
where the first three bytes form a
second
directory level this forms a tree with
two levels this is only done
to circumvent file system limitations to
be able to store a few million data sets
or even more in there so
uh in daylight every data set has a uuid
and
it would look pretty much like this the
second part is
uh underneath that directory we store
a bare git repository that contains all
the version control information for that
particular data set right so that's a
directory that you can point a plain git
uh
installation to and you could clone the
data from
and only then you would see the actual
content of the of the database so here's
the
domain agnostic representation of that
data set
which doesn't show as any of the files
that it contains right so if that
if that data set contains a few billion
files we wouldn't care
right because they're not consuming a
few billion files on that
on that data store so not taking away uh
um
inodes unnecessarily the third part is
an object store for the actual file
content so for those i would i don't
want to talk about this but daylight
uses a
a tool inside it's called gideon x which
separates basically
file content identity uh and the
the representation within a dataset so
any file regardless of how big
and what it was originally named is
represented at these as these kinds of
things so some sort of content hash
that that forms the file in addition uh
we have a space where we can put
um archived versions of these object
trees that we can compress
uh and and basically compress to a
single file
uh that is either in internally
compressed or or uncompressed
uh different thing and uh
the and that's basically all there is
right
so if that's the data store the question
is now how would it look like
for a researcher to use this machinery
and whenever a data set is created for
whatever kind of purpose
people issue a command it says datalet
create
and this applies a particular
configuration procedure in m7 is the
name of the institute
that i work at which completely
encapsulate any
setup overhead right so a researcher
doesn't have to know
that there is this machinery in the back
all the connections for data transfer
and so on
they're completely hidden behind that
thing right so that's that creates a
data set that can now hold
an arbitrary number of files if people
want to sync with that data store the
only thing they have to do is
they like publish to im7 right it's the
name of the institute so
home could be their laptop they could be
somewhere they just say daylight
published in m7
and the guarantee that they get is once
their data is in the store
backups will be taken care of data
preservation will be taken care of
accounting will be taken care of all
those things
right so they know whenever they reached
a certain point where they want to make
sure that this is
preserved they run this command that's
all they need to know
staging for high performance computing
systems or cluster right
now we have a completely domain agnostic
uh
data store that can be interpreted in
full
uh by people who are not the main
experts so i can have a script
that says now move me everything that
there is
to this data set to the high performance
computing infrastructure or
if that's complicated and requires
credentials i can simply say an email
say please stage this data set
why can i say that because each data set
knows all its dependencies
so those other affected sub data sets
that are
hanging underneath this dataset they can
be programmatically discovered and if
they can't be programmatically
discovered the machine can take care of
this
staging mechanism and that's
that is nice so and if people want to
use a data set
uh as i explained we always create a new
data set for any outcome
of a transformation they just create a
data set as as we've seen they give it a
name
and inside that new data set that they
just created
they install another one that already
exists
uk bio bank data set hpc hcp dataset
whatever and place it into a certain
location inside the data
set this is all they need to know about
the complexity and all the dependency
handling etc
interaction with the data store is all
being taken care of automatically
um by by datalite so um
that is a gigantic black box that we can
present to people that they don't have
to worry about but we know that black
boxes ultimately
come back and haunt you so that is not
the only thing
that we're doing the absolute the
absolutely essential part for
rolling out any sort of this technology
to people who are not technical
is the education and it needs to come in
two flavors the first flavor
is is this one is an effort led by
adina wagner there needs to be
comprehensive written
uh uh documentation right and it needs
to be targeted
for people that are the primary audience
for this so there's a data handbook
that has about 300 pages at the moment
which is targeting
first-year uh non-technical psychology
graduate students that need to be able
to understand what this thing is doing
to a degree that they have can have
confidence in in what they're doing
and the second one is oh and it has a
second part
you can read it from the end if you're a
pi or a decision maker
and you don't care about the details you
just want to know which are the pieces
that that need to be plugged together in
order to solve particular problems
with any have a use cases section that
is at the end
the second part is you can't just give
people those books because you don't
know whether they
they will read them and and some people
will just have no meaningful starting
point
so you will also you also have to give
them like hands-on training so there's a
there's a course based on that book
that can be run as a two-day uh block
event or as a series that you know that
uh accompanies some sort of a transition
period
that that can present the juicy bits for
example how can i
uh with this system implement an
executable reproducible paper
something that you can download from a
journal and compute
and at the end you will have the actual
manuscript that was submitted to joe
from the raw data right something like
this
uh and i think i'm kind of
late so i'll quickly go over the the
last point
whenever you do any of that then you you
have to anticipate change all the
decisions that you're making
will be invalid is just a matter of time
right
storage technology changes uh software
choices changes
uh selection of uh software component uh
might become unavailable over time and
you have to
anticipate those things in order to
guarantee
a certain lifetime of your investment
one big point that we've already talked
about over the last years is
how much do you want to rely on external
services that you don't control
right if you are an institution like
this i would say
you should not rely on external
resources that you don't control at all
because you can afford it right some
people can't afford it
uh what is absolutely critical in my
point of view is
that you have a consolidated
representation
of all the information that you consider
a data set
that is that lives in one place for the
single
or you can assemble one while the
services that you're using
are still running and the the single
most important reason for that is you
want to be able to transition
to another service in the future right
services are fun they look
nice you have buttons to click on
everything is fine but those things
will change the technology underneath
them will change you want to be able to
transition
and you want to be able to transition
without reinventing everything from
scratch because it will be
too expensive and if you if it happens
to you that it happens
like three times in your career you also
look ridiculous
right so you want to have the ability to
transition built in
and then you really have to think about
uh information longevity
so if you are you know running a data
management system that deals with
hundreds
of thousands of data sets you really
really want to make sure
that those data sets don't contain stuff
that needs frequent updating because you
want to be able to archive
you want to be able to still have the
archived versions
of actionable for as long as anyhow
possible
right and and i think if we can achieve
something that still runs in 10 years we
can already be proud
at this point in time i don't think
there is anything that that's
still meaningful works um after after 10
years of time
in particular information about the
location of things
that go into our data sets whenever you
encode a url in one of those data sets
please please
with sugar on top make sure that you at
least control the domain
of that url if it if it starts with
something something that is not yours
it's already broken right that thing
will go away all your urls will be
broken you have no way to
install a redirector and fix things up
um in daylight we have uh we have
ways to have several levels of of
indirection so you can for example say
uh to you can encode information in a
data set uh
this information this file blob identity
is available at inm seven storage and
then
daylight will call out to a program that
runs on the on the machine with a
particular name and say
go fix me this and you can change that
implementation
on a machine on a cluster supercomputing
system
whenever it is necessary without having
to touch all the hundred thousand data
sets that you created in the meantime
and git is a decentralized system so you
don't even have the ability
to push out uh reliably updates to all
the
various installations of of those data
sets and then
it's better to reference things by id
than by
location because those locations will
break over time especially
if you consider a failure of
institutional infrastructure right a
computing center
it goes down it's replaced by another
one a storage appliance that is replaced
by another thing
aws for some reason changing the
ids of their s3 urls and so on yeah
things happen
uh over time so i think in combination
these two things allow us to answer
a some facets of the question what data
is important because
in that data store without having to
have any domain knowledge
we can we can easily say which data
has been recently modified right we can
inspect those version control system and
simply say
what did happen to this thing in the
past year right
we can we can figure out the
dependencies
of any particular data set by just going
through the list and figuring out
what other data sets require this one
this can inform our decision
uh what kind of you know investment to
make for
the preservation of a particular uh data
set
we can look at our dependencies for
publication data sets like if you put
your manuscripts
in any of those data sets their analysis
results
the the analysis results they're based
on will be tracked as
a data dependency so you can figure out
which data sets belong to
published entities and you can treat
them differently
you can also look uh for the
contribution by a person you can say
okay this person has left this place
five years ago
uh we don't know we no longer want to
invest in the preservation of this
information because we hate the guy
right you just figure out all the datas
and throw them away or do exactly the
opposite right if you have a nobel
laureate you want to
you know put extra care in the
preservation of those
of those artifacts so and the key point
is
that all this information is available
in that data store and because you
engineered the infrastructure
to have people go through that uh data
store
for any meaningful or reasonably
heavy uh computation you have a chance
of having an approximate estimate of of
exactly what is going on and then with
this one i'll stop uh and acknowledge
uh many people eric who's gladly sitting
in front uh who's the
the lead developer of of daylight joey
he was
working on the underlying um um
guidance tool benjamin who is working
with me kyle who's working with uh
with um um derek and adina who is the
lead for our documentation effort
and at the moment 22 additional
contributors which were
are glad to have and some of them are in
this room thank you